Instructions
For Cooking Mutton:
Take a large bowl or vessel, into it add mutton pieces, add salt, add ginger garlic paste.
Add spices such as red chilli powder, turmeric powder, garam masala powder, black pepper corn powder and mix well.
Add beaten yogurt, mix well and put it aside.
Take a pressure cooker, add oil into the cooker and heat it.
Add cinnamon sticks, add cloves, kabab chini, cardamoms, caraway seeds and saute well.
Add vertically slit green chillies and saute for few seconds.
Add the mixed mutton mixture into it.
Add chopped coriander leaves into it.
Add deep fried onions into it.
Mix the whole mixture well, cook for few minutes and pressure cook the mutton mixture by adding a cup of water.
Reduce the steam, and place the cooked mutton aside.
For Cooking Rice:
When the mutton is getting tenderized, soak basmati rice in water for 35-40 minutes.
Meanwhile, take a cooking vessel, add water generously into it.
Add salt according to taste.
Add spices such as cinnamon sticks, cardamoms, cloves, caraway seeds.
Add lemon juice extract into it.
Bring the water to a boil.
Add the soaked rice into it.
Cook the rice until it is 3/4th done or 75% done.
Strain the rice completely.
For Layering Of Biryani:
Take empty cooking vessel, add oil at the base and coat it well.
Add a portion of the mutton mixture and spread it evenly.
Over the mutton add a layer a rice.
Season the layer with deep fried onions, coriander leaves, mint leaves, lemon juice, saffron flavored milk.
Again add the remaining cooked mutton mixture over the seasoning.
Add a layer of rice.
Season it again with deep fried onions, chopped coriander and mint leaves, lemon juice, saffron flavored milk.
Also add some ghee and some oil over the top if required and for fragrance.
Cover the lid of the vessel.
Switch on the stove.
Place a tawa over the flame.
Place the cooking vessel over it.
Cook the biryani for 10 minutes on high flame and for 15 minutes on low flame.
Place a weight on the vessel for quick results.
Biryani is done and ready to be served.